"Upcoming docs.rs changes" (#403)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2019-09-18-upcoming-docsrs-changes.md

---
layout: post
title: "Upcoming docs.rs changes"
author: The Rust Infrastructure Team
---

> On September 42nd breaking changes will be deployed to the [docs.rs] build

Reviewer: 42nd?

Author: Don't you like placeholder dates?

environment. [docs.rs] is a free service building and hosting documentation for
all the crates published on [crates.io]. It's [open source][docsrs-source] and
maintained by the [Rustdoc team][rustdoc-team].

## What will change

Builds will be executed inside the [rustops/crates-build-env] Docker image.
That image contains a lot of system dependencies installed to ensure we can
build as many crates as possible. It's already used by [Crater], and we added
all the dependencies previously installed in the legacy build environment.

To ensure we can continue operating the service in the future and to increase

> its reliability we also improved the sandbox builds are executed into, adding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
its reliability we also improved the sandbox builds are executed in, adding
```

new limits:

* Each platform will now have **15 minutes** to build its dependencies and
  documentation.
* **3 GB of RAM** will be available for the build.

> * Network access will be completly **disabled**.

Reviewer 3: Maybe worth noting here that we'll run `cargo fetch` before hand?

* Only the `target/` directory will be writable, and it will be purged after
  each build.

> Finally, docs.rs will now use the latest nightly available when building

Reviewer 2: It is my understanding that it already uses nightly. Perhaps the change is that the version of nightly is now automatically updated each day?

Author: Yeah, I'll clarify.

> crates.

Reviewer 3: We should make a note to update this post after deploying the changes to link to the limits page here.

## How to prepare for the changes

To test if your crate builds inside the new environment you can download the
Docker image locally and execute a shell inside it:

```
docker pull rustops/crates-build-env
docker run --rm -it rustops/crates-build-env bash
```

Once you're in a shell you can install [rustup] (it's not installed in the
image), install Rust nightly, clone your crate's repository and then build the
documentation:

```
cargo doc --no-deps
```

> If a dependency is missing please [open an issue][crates-build-env-issue] on

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a dependency is missing, please [open an issue][crates-build-env-issue] on
```

> the Docker image's repository.

Reviewer 2: Link to it again here, for ease of use.

If your crate fails to build because it took more than 15 minutes to generate

> its docs or it uses more than 3 GB of RAM please [open an issue][docsrs-issue]

Reviewer 3: Hm, I presume that the docker command above is not limited to these specs? Maybe we can provide an approximation to it or literally the limits we're using in some relatively easy fashion?

Author: No, it's not limited, and the only thing we could provide a snippet for is setting the 3 GB memory limit. We can't disable network access otherwise people can't fetch their crate's code, and we can't set a timeout as Docker doesn't support that (it's handled by rustwide).

Reviewer 4: Could we add `time` to the command? That way people will see some kind of time estimate.

Author: Added memory limits and the `time` command.

> and we will increase the limits for your crate (when it's reasonable). We will

Reviewer 2: Godspeed on handling these one-off requests.

> and we will increase the limits for your crate (when it's reasonable). We will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and we will consider reasonable increases of the limits for your crate. We will
```

**not** enable network access for your crate though: you'll need to change your

> crate not to require any external resource at build time.

Reviewer 2: Would it be be useful to show how this might work? Are there any well-known crates where we could link to a git commit where they did this?

Author: Not sure I have examples myself. Some FFI bindings like rusqlite bundle their C libraries if you pass a feature flag, but that's not really the same thing?

---
layout: post
title: "Upcoming docs.rs changes"
author: The Rust Infrastructure Team
---

On September 30nd breaking changes will be deployed to the [docs.rs] build
environment. [docs.rs] is a free service building and hosting documentation for
all the crates published on [crates.io]. It's [open source][docsrs-source] and

> maintained by the [Rustdoc team][rustdoc-team].

Reviewer 5: And infra team too now. I think you deserve recognition too. :)

## What will change

Builds will be executed inside the [rustops/crates-build-env] Docker image.
That image contains a lot of system dependencies installed to ensure we can

> build as many crates as possible. It's already used by [Crater], and we added

Reviewer 5: It'd be nice to tell users that they can provide documentation without requiring dependencies (that's what we do in gtk-rs for example). It'd prevent to have build failures.

Author: Do you have links with any example of that?

Reviewer 5: Sure!

We disable the linkage in the `build.rs` [file](https://github.com/gtk-rs/sys/blob/master/gdk-sys/build.rs) and we use the provided `docs.rs` feature in the `Cargo.toml` [file](https://github.com/gtk-rs/sys/blob/master/gdk-sys/Cargo.toml#L52) to enable/disable features too.

---
layout: post
title: "Upcoming docs.rs changes"
author: The Rust Infrastructure Team
---

> On September 30th breaking changes will be deployed to the [docs.rs] build

Reviewer 6: I'd rephrase this to emphasize the benefits first.

---

On September 30th, we'll be upgrading docs.rs to use a stronger sandbox when building documentation. This change is not expected to effect the vast majority of users, but it is technically a breaking change, so we want to be sure everyone is aware of it.

## what is docs.rs?

[docs.rs] is a free service building and hosting documentation ... (as before)

## What will change

...

author: The Rust Infrastructure Team
---

> On September 30nd breaking changes will be deployed to the [docs.rs] build

Reviewer 2: Traditionally, it's 30**th**. 😉

Author: Did I mention I'm bad at multitasking during infra meetings?
